Sergio Perez

Second runner’s mate from Max, well-known as Checo, has had a season full of ups and downs. Looking like he had a chance of having a championship battle with Max until Baku, then he had mental struggles that made him lose out on Q2 numerous times, rest assured, he told Helmut Marko (Financial Advisor of RBR) and Christian Horner (Team Principal of RBR) to do better, as his contract is ending by the end of 2024 season. 

Lewis Hamilton

With a disappointing season for Mercedes in general last season and Lewis getting outscored by his “rookie” teammate George Russell, Mercedes and Lewis have came back with a vengeance, not hoping for the result that they had accomplished, but Lewis is faithful in the Mercedes garage, extending his contract till 2025 with George Russell and entrusting Toto Wolff (Mercedes TP) and James Allison (Technical Director for Mercedes) to give him a championship winning car that can not only last one race, but the whole year.

George Russell

Second year for the Mercedes driver George Russell, who had scored the only win for the team last season. He did what he was expected to do, however was pressured by Lewis as the two had banters all over the season, starting at Jeddah where George didn’t allow Lewis past forcing him to overcook his tyres, and simple communication mishaps like Qatar where both of them collided causing his teammate to DNF on the session, but George ended the 2023 season with a podium in Abu Dhabi that definitely secured P2 in the constructors for Mercedes. 

Charles Leclerc

Unluckily, Charles Leclerc has had multiple mechanical failures in the span of the season, starting in Bahrain where his TurboCharger already lost its full power that was supposed to last him the whole season, giving him a 10-place grid penalty at Jeddah. He had the race pace to cook for Ferrari, however Ferrari with their questionable strategic calls and slow pit-stops ruined his chance to help Ferrari in the constructors, he did end Abu Dhabi in P2 in front of their constructor rivals, Mercedes. 

Carlos Sainz Jr.

Carlos Sainz in the Singapore GP was a masterclass session for the Ferrari crew, however putting Charles as sacrifice as random safety cars and crashes left the Spaniard in the front and used his racecraft to use Lando Norris as a way to defend from the Mercedes drivers, he went to the checkered flag as the only driver who has had a win as a non-Red Bull Racing driver.

Fernando Alonso

Lance Stroll

Starting with a Bahrain masterclass for Lance as a bicycle accident made him have difficulty with his left hand. However was deemed fit to race for the Bahrain Grand Prix. However, the season has left him with full of unfortunate luck, his qualifying crash at the Singapore Grand Prix causing him to snap out on his trainer at the Qatar qualifying exit. Lawrence Stroll has given him reassurance that he will be given time to step up for next season however. 

Lando Norris

McLaren had a silent car from Bahrain all the way to the Canadian Grand Prix, when given a huge upgrade for Austria. It showed pace for a huge haul of points, and a podium for Lando for the British Grand Prix. Until then, the McLaren had pace that made them secure P4 in the constructors championship, with their vision of beating Aston Martin from the start of the season, they achieved that. 

Oscar Piastri

He had his first win (if you consider sprints a win) at the Qatar Grand Prix, where Lando until this day has no win yet, he also achieved to have the greatest rookie season ever since Lewis Hamilton in 2007. His performance was such a surprise, McLaren gave him a contract extension till more years with his driver pair, Lando Norris!	

Pierre Gasly

Was the better Frenchman all-year round. However, Alpine as it is always supports Ocon even if they know that he’s slower, apparently “experience” is needed to be the no.1 driver. Hopefully, he goes all out on him next season to really show his true potential.

Esteban Ocon

Can’t cope with the pressure honestly, after his podium in Monaco everything went downfall for him. Hopefully he truly accepts that he’s the no.2 driver now and makes way for Gasly to lead the future of Alpine and have a clear direction moving forward.

Alexander Albon

He put places in that car where he shouldn’t be even reaching them. He took strategic risks and turned on his favor, that qualifying soft which in the end made him finish P7, which eventually secured their place in constructors against Alpha Tauri, hoping a contending team signs him in the near future or James Vowles (Williams TP) gives him a contending car for the future.  

Logan Sargeant

He had a promising start in Bahrain with a P12 finish, however rookie mistakes that hindered his confidence pretty much for the rest of the season. However, a finish of P12 for the US (Austin) GP and Lewis, Charles DSQ (disqualified) for the race, getting him into the cusp of one point, which pretty much secured his seat for the 2024 season. James Vowles is expecting better results for him, eventually reducing those same rookie mistakes to rare ones and eventually having consistent qualifying pace against Albon. 

Zhou Guanyu

It was quite disappointing for Alfa Romeo as a whole, you don’t want to spend your last year in the grid being the slowest at Pre-Season Testing. However, they did turn it around but not enough to secure a better finishing place than last season. The only positive for him was the Fastest Lap at the Bahrain Grand Prix and securing a high qualifying position for the Hungarian Grand Prix (which was immediately shattered by a bad start by both him and Valtteri) 

Valtteri Bottas

Same comment as Zhou, not really a step in the right direction nor what they wanted being the last year under Alfa Romeo, none the less he is still the “leader” of the team and their development direction for next season. Same as Zhou, his key moment was an ATA qualifying masterclass in the Hungaroring, F1 twitter erupted when they saw BOTH Alfa Romeo cars in Q3 which is obviously was quite a shock considering they were a backmarker team till then. 

Yuki Tsunoda

A lot of maturity and development happened for him we would say, he was definitely under pressure all season, first with the most experienced rookie where we did see him a bit shook up however picked up and showed who’s the better driver. After getting sacked, he also showed his identical qualifying and race pace against Daniel Ricciardo who was a multiple Grand Prix winner, and was eyeing a Red Bull seat for as early as 2025. Even then when Liam Lawson scored quite literally his first points in his second race in F1, he still showed that he is still better when the circumstance arises and definitely showed he can either be Max’s sidekick or be the face of Alpha Tauri. 

Liam Lawson

In his Formula 1 debut, he was the man that knocked out both Red Bulls in the Singapore GP qualifying, he was the man that scored 2 points in his SECOND race as a Formula 1 racing driver, and where Alpha Tauri were in desperate need of points finishes so that they could have a fight in the constructors championship, it was pretty nice to see him have a go as a driver, the future is bright for him. He might be the replacement for whoever gets promoted from Alpha Tauri to Red Bull in 2025.

Nyck de Vries

It's honestly sad how he said goodbye in Formula 1, some were just rookie mistakes everyone will accept if you were a young driver and inexperienced. He was, however he was supposed to be in the same skill level as Pierre Gasly, as a replacement, and the Red Bull family do have high expectations considering he was a part of the Mercedes reserve. Sadly, that was not the case for him. At the end of the day, he got his shot but not to the fullest extent, getting sacked from the 11th race of the season in Hungary. 

Kevin Magnussen

Well, Haas is haas. We didn't really expect them to have a jump up in the standings, either staying or regressing due to their driver pairing having Nico Hulkenberg which has not formally touched an F1 car for a full season since 2019, being Aston Martin's reserve ever since then till 2022. But he was supposed to be the No.1 driver and he showed that, not really on the pace side of things but the driver who takes risks, goes flat out on the car. It was quite sad how they went back to last even if they had a really solid start to the season. 

Nico Hulkenberg

First full season back after 3 seasons. He did what he was told and the expectations were just right. Not really much to be said till the 2024 season because mainly they were just at the back after Australia and never recovered ever since, close points finishes here and there but in the end he wasn't a crash merchant which Haas got him in the seat in the first place, for experience and stability. 

Daniel Ricciardo 

First season without seeing him in a formal driver seat in Bahrain, that 11th lap of him in the Silverstone tyre test that secured his seat in Alpha Tauri is still diabolical considering De Vries hasn't even done anything really bad, it was just the expectations around him. Oh well, his Mexico qualifying lap that put him P4 and eventually into the big points range was simply a masterclass from him. Hopefully next year, he can secure that Red Bull seat and reunite with Max so that also Liam Lawson can get his opportunity. 